In the next couple of lessons I want to show you two things.
First I want to show you how to install third party modules and packages that don't come bundled with
the anaconda distribution that we're running.
But more importantly I want to show you a data visualization technique for giving prominence to words
that appear more frequently in a piece of text namely the word cloud a word cloud or a tag cloud as
it is also called looks like this.
The idea behind the word cloud is that the words that are larger appear more frequently than those that
are smaller here.
I've used the Vicky PDR article on machine learning to generate this particular word cloud.
Notice how the larger tags catch your attention.
You'll probably find that you're not actually reading all the words in this visualization at all.
Instead people just tend to scan these word clouds.
So why use this technique.
It's not scientific and it's not accurate.
True but more often than not you need to grab people's attention and a word cloud can do this rather
well.
It's a little bit of a novel visualization.
It's a bit creative and it communicates the relative importance of the words in the dataset very quickly.
After all it's pretty easy to see that a word that's twice the size of another word is probably twice
as important.
And in our case it appears twice as often.
Speaking of grabbing people's attention you can get even more creative with the word cloud by applying
a mask to the image here.
I've used a circle as a mask but you could use another image instead.
For example would you like to venture a guess as to what data I've used to create this would cloud in
the shape of a whale.
I actually used Herman Melville's novel Moby Dick and here I've used the data from our spam emails and
here I've used Shakespeare's play Hamlet.
Coming up I'll be showing you how to create all of these three visualizations.
That way you can apply this technique to your future projects.
I've seen a lot of people use word clouds on reports and presentations that say contain customer feedback
or metadata like tags or SEO keywords that will help you rank on Google or really any situation where
you quickly need to show how people feel about your product or your business.
These are the kind of applications where word clouds really shine.
All right.
So how do we create a word cloud in python because we're not gonna do it from scratch.
We will use an existing Python package.
Now the fantastic thing about the anaconda distribution is that it comes bundled with lots and lots
of different packages.
Straight out of the box these included none pipe pandas.
Matt Portland and many others that we've already used.
However the python ecosystem is actually huge and you'll often find that you'll want to make use of
a package that's not installed by default.
In that case you'll need to know how to download and install a custom package to add to your collection.
For that you'll be using the terminal if you're running a Mac or the anaconda prompt on Windows.
Both of these kind of look like this and this is where you can execute many different types of commands
the command that will be looking at in detail is called Conda install.
And the easiest way to install a package is just to type condo install followed by the package name.
However this won't always work and it actually won't work in the case of our word cloud package.
And the reason is is that we also have to specify something called a channel a channel is the location
where Conda will look for the package.
If you just write condo install and then the package name then Connor will search in a default location
which may or may not contain the package that you're looking for.
If you need to specify a particular channel or you know that the package exists then all you have to
do is follow condo install with hyphen C and then the channel name this syntax that dash C works just
like your supplying an argument to a python function.
In our case the word cloud package is located in a channel called condo forge and therefore the code
that we will be typing into our prompt will read Conda install high fancy condo hyphen forge word cloud.
Let me quickly show you how to do this on Mac and then I'll show you what you'll see on a Windows machine.
To see the existing packages that are already installed.
Fire up your Anaconda navigate home and then click on environments there you can search for the existing
packages that are already installed on your computer.
The package that we're looking for is called word cloud all in one word.
Now since I can't find it I'm going to open my terminal there.
I'm going to type Conda install word cloud but just as we've discussed earlier for the word cloud package
we actually to specify a channel we need to specify a location because it's not found in the default
location where Conda is looking.
Instead we need to type Conda install hyphens see Conda hyphen forge word cloud and if you don't make
any typos then you should see your computer starting to do some work prior to going ahead with the installation
you may have to confirm that you actually want to do this and then you have to type Y for yes to proceed
at this point a download will start.
And once the download is finished you'll see something like preparing transaction verifying transaction
executing transaction.
Dun dun dun.
And then you're good to go once you see these messages.
I encourage you to fire up finder go to the anaconda folder then go to the packages folder and then
find the word cloud sub folder there.
This is the package that you've just installed back in the anaconda navigator.
You can now type in word cloud into the search bar and it should pop up.
Mind you I actually had to restart my anaconda Navigator for it to pick this up and that pretty much
concludes the setup for Mac on Windows.
The story is pretty much the same if you fire up the anaconda navigator and search for word cloud it
doesn't appear to bring up the anaconda prompt.
All you need to do is click on that little place symbol and then say open terminal.
This will fire up the anaconda prompt where you can type in Conda install hyphen C Conda hyphen forge
word cloud.
Now depending on the speed of your machine this might take a little while but you can't go in and grab
a coffee just yet because once again you need to type in y to confirm and proceed after you've done
that a download will start.
And I'm actually fast forwarding my video here because this took a little bit longer on this machine
but at the end you'll see the very same messages that we saw on Mac preparing transaction verifying
transaction executing transaction.
Dun dun dun.
And that's it.
If you'd like to see where these packages were actually installed on your computer go to your user directory.
So mine's called Peter D.
Under users but yours will have your own name of course.
Then open Anaconda.
3 Then go to the packages folder and there.
If you scroll further down you should see the word cloud package along with the others that start with
W back in the anaconda navigator.
You won't necessarily find the word plot package listed already.
You might have to actually quit and restart this thing because only then does it seem to pick it up.
Now you're pretty much all set to install any package you come across in the future.
All you need to do after all is type Conda install then the channel where the package is located and
then the package name and that's it in the next lesson.
It's time to write some python code and actually create these word clouds.
So I hope you're looking forward to that as much as I am.
I'll see you there.